great weather we're having
awesome job you're a tremendous athlete
compliments right well
maybe depending on the attitude and tone
of voice behind these lines they very
well may be
compliments they may also be though
pointed
and attacking lines this slight change
of attitude
behind the lines reveals what we call
verbal irony so when someone says
great weather we're having it is quite
possible that person
really means that if the sun is shining
the birds are singing and the wind is
calm
but if the weather is horrible the
clouds are looming and the wind is a
raging tempest
and someone says great weather we're
having
he probably doesn't actually mean that
he probably means that the weather is
horrible but he has said the opposite
this is verbal irony when the speaker
says the opposite of what he means i
know what you're thinking isn't this
sarcasm
isn't the speaker being sarcastic yes
when a speaker says the opposite of what
he means that is verbal irony
when the speaker then goes the step
farther to mean the opposite of what he
says
and seeks to be a little pointed and
mean like he's making fun of something
then you have sarcasm take the second
example
awesome job someone accomplishing his
lifelong dream
awesome someone winning a sports
championship awesome
someone rear-ends another car not
awesome so when the passenger says
awesome job they probably mean the
opposite with a hint of poking fun
that is verbal irony and that is
sarcastic
you're a talented athlete said to an
olympian
authentic no verbal irony present said
to the klutzy kid tripping into english
class and spilling his books and pencil
case all over the room
now that's just harsh and verbally
ironic
because what you said is not what you
meant
that is verbal irony you have said the
opposite of what you mean
additionally since you have the
intention of mocking this poor person
you have been not only verbally ironic
but sarcastic
as well beware though while all sarcasm
fits the definition of verbal irony
not all verbal irony is sarcastic
verbal irony is where what is meant is
the opposite of what is said
while sarcasm adds that little punch of
attitude
there are times though where another
layer of meaning can be present
without that sarcastic tone
all right now go out there and find
those examples of verbal irony
and sarcasm good luck
no seriously i mean it good luck no no
really i truly want to wish you luck on
this difficult task
okay okay sincerely good luck you can do
it
no verbal irony here